
Summary:
 - Can be used as proxy or pluggable transport.
 - Add some headers during websocket UPGRADE handshake.
 - Upon successful negotiation, gives access to a circuit.
 - Upon failure, acts as if there is no websocket listener.
 - Returns negotiation results in handshake answer.

Notes:
 - this "spec" is only notes, i.e. "brain farts".
 - python websockets provides everything we need to bind unholy handshakes.


-------------
original file
-------------

Some notes about anything I can think of in term of features and implementation
that can be included in lightnion. Note that here we assume that lightnion
provides no path selection mechanism -- also note that a client can recover at
any time a consensus or descriptors by doing an attempt without X-PNN-IDENTITY
and further perform signature validation and path selection locally.

No mechanism for feature negotiation is provided to avoid trivial probing, note
that both PNN-OTP-SEED and PNN-HTTP-PROXY should be set to avoid active probes
(assuming a proper implementation of the lightnion proxy)

lightnion config, only read once during startup:
    PNN-LISTEN host:port (required)
        incoming connections host:port
        if lightnion is started as a plug. transport, host:port are overridden
    PNN-ORPORT host:port:fast (required)
        parent Tor node
        if lightnion is started as a plug. transport, host:port are overridden
        if :fast is omitted, attempts without X-PNN-NTOR will be unrecognized.
        if :fast is present, lightnion circuit creation defaults to CREATE_FAST
        whenever X-PNN-NTOR is omitted in the attempt.
    PNN-PER-LINK nb (optional)
        set the number of channel allocated per link, i.e. number of circuits
        created before rotating a link.
        (defaults to 16)
    PNN-MAX-LINK nb (optional)
        set the number of links that can exists in parallel.
        (destroying oldest links first whenever needed)
        (defaults to 64)
    PNN-EXPIRACY seconds (optional)
        number of seconds of inactivity before destroying channel.
        (defaults to 600)
    PNN-TIMEOUT seconds (optional)
        number of seconds before timeout during circuit creation.
        (defaults to 10)
    PNN-SSL-CERT path (recommended)
        if present, PNN-SSL-KEY must be set.
        if present, lightnion will only accept TLS connections and will use the
        certificate at the given path.
        if not present, lightnion will not recognize attempts w/o X-PNN-NTOR.
    PNN-SSL-KEY path (recommended)
        if present, PNN-SSL-CERT must be set.
        if present, lightnion will only accept TLS connections and will use the
        key material at the given path.
        if not present, lightnion will not recognize attempts w/o X-PNN-NTOR.
    PNN-NTOR-AUTH hex/path (optional)
        if present and either PNN-SSL-CERT or PNN-SSL-KEY is not set, lightnion
        will not recognize attempts without a X-PNN-AUTH header.
        if present, lightnion will accept X-PNN-AUTH headers if its value can
        be interpreted as a valid x25519 key (either 32 hex-encoded bytes or a
        path as described below).
        if present and is not 64 hexadecimal digits, lightnion will interpret
        the given value as the path of a PEM-encoded file and will take the
        last 32 bytes of its base64-encoded material as key.
        (effectively ignoring plausible x25519 ASN.1 headers)
        if not present and either PNN-SSL-CERT or PNN-SSL-KEY is not present,
        lightnion fails.
    PNN-HTTP-PROXY protocol:host:port (experimental)
        if not present, any unrecognized attempt will fail with no content, no
        extra header and a status code of 400.
        if present, any unrecognized attempt of opening a channel will be
        forwarded as-is to the specified host:port and the answer, status code
        and headers will be returned as-is to the client -- note that protocol
        can only take "http" and "https" as value and that lightnion will
        return a status code 500 without content nor extra header if it is
        unable to complete the request.
    PNN-OTP-SEED hex (experimental)
        if present, lightnion will not recognize any attempt of opening any
        channel without a valid X-PNN-OTP header and the hex-encoded seed
        will be used to check validity.
        (the seed must contain at least 32 bytes of uniform randomness and thus
         lightnion will reject any seed shorter than 32 bytes)
    PNN-MIN-POISSON milliseconds (experimental)
        if not present, lightnion will not recognize any attempt that provides
        a X-PNN-POISSON header.
        if present, lightnion will not recognize any attempts that set a
        X-PNN-POISSON header value below the value set here.
        (should approximate PNN-LINK-POISSON * PNN-PER-LINK)
        (recommended to 256)
    PNN-LINK-POISSON milliseconds (experimental)
        if present and PNN-MIN-POISSON not present, lightnion fails.
        (defaults to 16)

1. the client arrives, begin a websocket handshake providing extra headers:
    - X-PNN-IDENTITY base64 (recommended)
        target Tor node identity, must be the first X-PNN prefixed header and
        must be equal to the parent Tor node identity to recognize the attempt.
        if not present, defaults to the parent Tor node identity.
        (can be used to implement header-based reverse proxies)
    - X-PNN-NTOR base64 (recommended)
        if present, a CREATE2 cell is send during circuit creation instead of a
        CREATE_FAST cell, effectively performing a ntor handshake with parent
        Tor node.
        if present, lightnion will set X-PNN-NTORED header with the server
        base64-encoded part of the handshake:
            either a full identity+onionkey+pubkey
            either a short only-pubkey
        if X-PNN-NTOR is short, identity+onionkey used are of parent Tor node
    - X-PNN-AUTH base64 (optional)
        if present, it must be 32 base64-encoded bytes that represents an
        x25519 public key.
        if present, lightnion will perform a ntor handshake between the given
        x25519 X-PNN-AUTH public key, the ntor onion key provided by
        PNN-NTOR-AUTH and the identity set to parent Tor node's identity and
        will only set X-PNN-DONE and X-PNN-AUTHED headers in the answer,
        respectively to all X-PNN prefixed headers that should have been set
        without X-PNN-AUTH in the attempt as a base64-encoded encrypted payload
        and to the server base64-encoded part of the handshake.
        (encryption uses here as key the first 32 bytes of the key material
         issued during the handshake and as nonce the next 24 bytes)
    - X-PNN-OTP hex (experimental)
        if present, must be the last X-PNN prefixed header of the attempt.
        if present and the server doesn't have PNN-OTP-SEED set, the attempt
        will be unrecognized.
        if not present and the server does have PNN-OTP-SEED set, the attempt
        will be unrecognized.
        if present and the server does have PNN-OTP-SEED set, the attempt will
        be recognized if and only if X-PNN-OTP hex value is 128 digits (64
        bytes) and equal to TOTP with key set to all X-PNN prefixed headers
        as set in the attempt except for X-PNN-OTP set to PNN-OTP-SEED,
        separated by a new line and ordered as in the attempt, using the
        default TOTP parameters and sha512 as hash function.
    - X-PNN-POISSON milliseconds (experimental)
        if present, lightnion will queue cells in both directions, each queue
        emptying itself at intervals drawn from an exponential distribution
        with an average set to the given milliseconds.
        note that whenever a backward queue (from node to client) is empty,
        a DROP cell is generated then queued.
        note that each forward queue (from client to node) empties itself in
        a common link queue that empties itself at intervals draw from an
        exponential distribution with an average set to PNN-LINK-POISSON
        milliseconds.
        note that whenever a link queue is empty, a DROP cell is generated
        then queued.
        (DROP cells neither tags circuits nor links as active)

2. the server creates a channel and its associated circuit for the client:
    - a channel creation attempt can be either recognized or unrecognized, it
      is recognized if all constraints put on X-PNN prefixed headers of the
      attempt are filled.
    - unrecognized channel creation attempts gives either 400 status codes with
      no content and no extra headers or are forwarded as-is to PNN_HTTP_PROXY
      if it was set during lightnion startup.
    - circuit creation is attempted if and only if the attempt is recognized
      and must be the last step performed during channel creation.
    - if circuit creation timeouts, the channel creation failed and a status
      code HTTP 503 is returned.
    - every channel that does not receive messages from a client for more than
      PNN-EXPIRACY is destroyed together with its circuit.
    - whenever a link have no channel alive and is not the last link alive, it
      is destroyed.
    - after creating PNN-PER-LINK circuits for a link, a new link is created
      and used for further circuits.
    - the server attributes the circuit id used during creation to the channel
      and will not use it again.

3. the server gives an answer to the handshake and set several headers:
    - X-PNN-IDENTITY base64
        target Tor node identity used as guard in this context, set whenever
        X-PNN-DONE is not present
    - X-PNN-NTORED base64
        set whenever X-PNN-NTOR was provided in the channel creation attempt,
        except if X-PNN-DONE is present
    - X-PNN-EXPIRACY seconds
        set whenever PNN-EXPIRACY is different from its default value,
        except if X-PNN-DONE is present
    - X-PNN-DONE base64
        set whenever X-PNN-AUTH was provided in the channel creation attempt
    - X-PNN-AUTHED base64
        set whenever X-PNN-DONE is present, see X-PNN-AUTH
    - X-PNN-OTP-STAMP seconds
        set as an integer equal to the unix timestamp as used during TOTP
        whenever X-PNN-OTP was provided in the channel creation attempt,
        except if X-PNN-DONE is present

4. the server will forward binary data in both directions between the client
   and the parent Tor node:
    - every cell going from the client to the parent node will be dropped
      whenever its circuit id is different from 0x80000000 or whenever its
      command is different from 0x03 (RELAY cell).
    - every cell going from the client to the parent node will see its circuit
      id replaced by the id of the circuit id attached to the channel.
    - every cell going from the parent node to the client will be dropped if
      its command is different from 0x03 (RELAY cell).
    - every cell going from the parent node to the client will see its circuit
      id replaced by 0x80000000.
    - if for any reason, the circuit attached to the channel is destroyed, the
      channel is destroyed and its connection closed.

Whenever encryption that are not explicitly required by the Tor protocol is
performed by lightnion or its client, we use xsalsa20-poly1305 authenticated
encryption as implemented by nacl via secretbox. This case is for now only used
whenever X-PNN-DONE is set.
